---
title: 'TUI'
pubDate: 2024-09-14
updatedDate: 2024-09-14
description: 'Making an interface without a browser.'
author: 'Jackson Kennedy'
image:
    url: 'https://docs.astro.build/assets/full-logo-light.png'
    alt: 'The full Astro logo.'
tags: ["rust", "tui"]
---

All user interfaces I've made have been web apps or mobile apps. And saying I've made a "mobile app" is generous. I interact with other interfaces all the time though. Especially terminal based apps or CLIs. As I used more and more terminal based stuff (and have committed to Neovim more and more) I've wanted to play around with making my own CLI. 

#### Goal

While making the Distributed HashMap in the [previous post](https://blog.jtken.com/blog/2024-06-22-distributed-hashmap/), every time I wanted to get a full test going I'd run three very similar `cargo run` commands in three separate terminals. If I wanted to kill one server I'd just move to the right terminal and CTRL-C. To parse the logs for one server I'd just scroll up in the terminal I cared about. This worked, but felt like it could be better. Combine that with wanting to make my own CLI and I had the perfect project. I'd make my own life easier and get to practice with making a new kind of user interface. To outline it more succinctly, my goal was to make a CLI that would allow me to deploy a cluster of test servers, kill a subset of those servers on demand, read through the logs of individual servers, and maybe even allow me to make requests to the cluster. 

#### Reality

So far I have done only a (tiny) portion of my outlined goals. I can start a cluster and I can *sort of* read through the individual servers logs. I have yet to make reading through the logs an easy process and the history is not easily kept right now. The logs also show up **incredibly** slowly. 

When I started I had only ever used what I'd call a "regular" CLI. You type in one command, it runs, maybe even for a long time and gives outputs on its progress along the way. Once the user hits enter though, the programs goals were set in stone. The CLI would execute until it completed its task or was terminated. To me basic examples of this are `cargo build` and even `ls`. But, I started to realize there wasn't much stopping a CLI from being like the other programs I use that have interactive user interfaces. The terminal could take inputs while a program is executing just as easily as a web browser could. In fact I was already using a bunch and didn't really know it, Neovim being the prime example. 

So, all that to say, the reason (or my current excuse) I've made so little progress towards the initial goals for my CLI is I've spent more time making it an interactive TUI than I have making it actually work. I've written it in Rust so far and I've used two different frameworks. The first being [superconsole](https://github.com/facebookincubator/superconsole). The demos on its GitHub page drew me in and the concept one section of the terminal that was "redrawn" while the rest of the terminal had scrolling output seemed interesting. When trying to actually use superconsole though, I struggled to get it to work how I wanted it to. Changing the layout of text on the screen and dynamically choosing how text was wrapped wasn't easy. superconsole's core purpose seemed to be powering `buck2` (a build tool built by Facebook). Not much else was *required* from it. So as long as it did that, the user-base was happy. That meant there weren't docs for doing anything with it, just the provided examples. 

Rather than fight uphill making superconsole work, I decided to move on and use [Ratatui](https://ratatui.rs/), another TUI framework designed in Rust. Ratatui gives more control over how things are rendered and would let me do everything I wanted to. It also appears to be more actively supported and even some tokio projects (tokio-console) seem to be using it. Rather than having two defined spaces on the terminal for where output can be, Ratatui works more like the UI frameworks I'm used to where the programmer is given full control over the layout. This means more upfront work but it also means its harder to be stuck without options. I've gotten my basic TUI working with this framework. The code for this is in [this commit](https://github.com/jtk5aw/raft-implementation/tree/04b0c094108956758baaf4df67ef46577e6eefb0) in the `risdb-deploy` directory/crate.

In its current state the performance of the TUI is atrocious, it has lag of up to 15 seconds which is just unusable. I'm not 100% sure why that is, I have guesses, but I'm going to use this as an opportunity to do performance benchmarking of a Rust program. Hopefully I can make it snappier. 
