---
title: 'Advent of Adders'
pubDate: 2025-02-13
updatedDate: 2025-04-27
description: 'Advent of Code 2024'
author: 'Jackson Kennedy'
image:
    url: 'https://docs.astro.build/assets/full-logo-light.png'
    alt: 'The full Astro logo.'
tags: ["rust"]
---

Advent of Code 2024 done!
Wasn’t on time, (46 days late but who’s counting) but I got it done.
I struggled with some of these problems too.
My personal goal was to solve all of them without having to go to the Advent of Code reddit for hints but, some of the problems got me.
A good portion I had to get some pointers from the subreddit (maybe half of them?).
In the worst case I would run a known working solution on my input and compare with what my program was generating to help with debugging (I think I went this route on maybe 5 problems).
For those problems it feels like a cheated a bit but it’s a small enough number I can live with myself.
Plus I was able to write my own working code for all of the problems.
Every star came from an output generated by code I wrote.
Even when comparing outputs I only every submitted an answer once my code was actually working.

I’m happy I was able to solve all the problems even with the help.
Hats off to the people who can do this without any hints AND can solve them quickly enough to be on the leaderboards consistently.
Truly takes some real puzzle-solving/programming skills to do that.

My favorite problem was the christmas eve puzzle, Day 24: Crossed Wires.
I spent hours and hours on this one over the course of three weekends.
My final answer was in no way a general solution either; if you gave me another broken adder my code wouldn’t spit out the right answer.
I’d have to use the code I wrote and manually build up a solution.
To even get to this final version of my solution I wrote a lot of “throwaway” code for this problem.
Almost like scripts within the program to get some debugging info about the structure of my inputs that I needed to build up an answer.

That flavor of programming is not Rust’s strongsuit either.
I would often find myself trying to get some one off piece of code working to get better debugging info and find myself lost in the weeds of the borrow checker.
By the time I found my way out I had often forgotten what I was hoping to accomplish.
But, at the end of the day the point of good software isn’t really to write it and throw it away.
So I’m going to keep writing a lot of Rust for now (🦀).

```
         * 
        /|\ 
       /*|O\
      /*/|\*\
     /X/O|*\X\
    /*/X/|\X\*\
   /O/*/X|*\O\X\ 
  /*/O/X/|\X\O\*\
 /X/O/*/X|O\X\*\O\
/O/X/*/O/|\X\*\O\X\
        |X|      
        |X|
```


